README.md, before:

# Eloquent Queryable

A PHP package to automatically inject query rules in Eloquent model queries from request query parameters.

Filtering query results in Laravel/Lumen application with Eloquent is a very common task that all the developers need to do in almost any project. The purpose of this package is to provide a single trait to give the ability to filter and add query logic to Elouqent models using request query strings.

For example, the folling query will fetch all the users whos names starts with B, order them by created at and will also fetch only non admin users.

```
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_starts_with]=b&q[order_by]=created_at,asc&q[where_is_admin_ne]=1
```


## Install

**Via Composer**

``` bash
$ composer require munza/eloquent-queryable
```

## Register

**in Laravel**

```php
// config/app.php

    'providers' => [
    // ...
        Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class,
    // ...
    ]
```

**in Lumen**

```php
// bootstrap/app.php

    // ...
    $app->register(Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class);
    // ...
```

## Configuration

**in Laravel**

```bash
$ php artisan vendor:publish --provider=Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class
```

**in Lumen**

```bash
$ cp vendor/munza/eloquent-queryable/resources/config/eloquent-queryable.php ./config
```

```php
// bootstrap/app.php
// ...
$app->configure('eloquent-queryable');
// ...
```

## Usage

Add `Munza\EloquentQueryable\Traits\RequestQueryable` trait in the model to use.

By default all the attributes and relationships in the model is queryable. To restrict it use the following attribute in the model.

```php
    protected $queryable = [
        'id',           // attribute
        'posts',        // relationship
        'posts.title',  // relationship field
        // ...
    ];
```

`protected $queyrable = '*'` also means any attribute or relatinship can be used to query.

## Example Queries

```
http://localhost:8000/users?q[select]=id,name
http://localhost:8000/users?q[order_by]=name,desc;created_at
http://localhost:8000/users?q[limit]=20
http://localhost:8000/users?q[offset]=10
http://localhost:8000/users?q[with]=posts,posts.comments

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_{column_name}_{postfix}]={values}
http://localhost:8000/users?q[or_where_{column_name}_{postfix}]={values}

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_starts_with]=John
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_starts_with]=John

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_ends_with]=Doe
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_ends_with]=Doe

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_contains]=John
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_contains]=John

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_gt]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_lt]=2017-07-19%2008:14:48

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_eq]=John%20Doe
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_ne]=John%20Doe

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_id_in]=1,2,3
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_id_not_in]=1,2,3

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_between]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45,2017-07-19%2008:14:48
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_not_between]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45,2017-07-19%2008:14:48

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_posts.title_starts_with]=Hello
```

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Not maintained warning and alternative

README.md, after:

# Eloquent Queryable

### This repo is not maintained anymore. You can check [spatie/laravel-query-builder](https://github.com/spatie/laravel-query-builder) as a better alternative.

A PHP package to automatically inject query rules in Eloquent model queries from request query parameters.

Filtering query results in Laravel/Lumen application with Eloquent is a very common task that all the developers need to do in almost any project. The purpose of this package is to provide a single trait to give the ability to filter and add query logic to Elouqent models using request query strings.

For example, the folling query will fetch all the users whos names starts with B, order them by created at and will also fetch only non admin users.

```
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_starts_with]=b&q[order_by]=created_at,asc&q[where_is_admin_ne]=1
```


## Install

**Via Composer**

``` bash
$ composer require munza/eloquent-queryable
```

## Register

**in Laravel**

```php
// config/app.php

    'providers' => [
    // ...
        Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class,
    // ...
    ]
```

**in Lumen**

```php
// bootstrap/app.php

    // ...
    $app->register(Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class);
    // ...
```

## Configuration

**in Laravel**

```bash
$ php artisan vendor:publish --provider=Munza\EloquentQueryable\EloquentQueryableServiceProvider::class
```

**in Lumen**

```bash
$ cp vendor/munza/eloquent-queryable/resources/config/eloquent-queryable.php ./config
```

```php
// bootstrap/app.php
// ...
$app->configure('eloquent-queryable');
// ...
```

## Usage

Add `Munza\EloquentQueryable\Traits\RequestQueryable` trait in the model to use.

By default all the attributes and relationships in the model is queryable. To restrict it use the following attribute in the model.

```php
    protected $queryable = [
        'id',           // attribute
        'posts',        // relationship
        'posts.title',  // relationship field
        // ...
    ];
```

`protected $queyrable = '*'` also means any attribute or relatinship can be used to query.

## Example Queries

```
http://localhost:8000/users?q[select]=id,name
http://localhost:8000/users?q[order_by]=name,desc;created_at
http://localhost:8000/users?q[limit]=20
http://localhost:8000/users?q[offset]=10
http://localhost:8000/users?q[with]=posts,posts.comments

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_{column_name}_{postfix}]={values}
http://localhost:8000/users?q[or_where_{column_name}_{postfix}]={values}

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_starts_with]=John
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_starts_with]=John

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_ends_with]=Doe
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_ends_with]=Doe

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_contains]=John
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_not_contains]=John

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_gt]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_lt]=2017-07-19%2008:14:48

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_eq]=John%20Doe
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_name_ne]=John%20Doe

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_id_in]=1,2,3
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_id_not_in]=1,2,3

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_between]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45,2017-07-19%2008:14:48
http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_created_at_not_between]=2017-07-19%2008:14:45,2017-07-19%2008:14:48

http://localhost:8000/users?q[where_posts.title_starts_with]=Hello
```

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
